"A fit body, a calm mind, a house full of love. These things cannot be bought they must be earned."―Naval
"Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want."―Naval
"I would say that the five most important skills are of course, reading, writing, arithmetic, and then as you’re adding in, persuasion, which is talking. And then finally, I would add computer programming just because it’s an applied form of arithmetic that just gets you so much leverage for free in any domain that you operate in. If you’re good with computers, if you’re good at basic mathematics, if you’re good at writing, if you’re good at speaking, and if you like reading, you’re set for life."―Naval
"I don't actually read a lot of books. I pick up a lot of books and only get through a few, which form the foundation of my knowledge."―Naval
"Forty hour workweeks are a relic of the Industrial Age. Knowledge workers function like athletes—train and sprint, then rest and reassess."―Naval
"A rational person can find peace by cultivating indifference to things outside their control."―Naval
"In any situation in life, you only have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It's that struggle, that aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: accept."―Naval
"You make your own luck if you stay at it long enough."―Naval
"If it entertains you now but will bore you someday, it's a distraction. Keep looking."―Naval
"Knowledge is a skyscraper. You can take a shortcut with a fragile foundation of memorization or build slowly upon a steel frame of understanding."―Naval
"Competing without software is like competing without electricity."―Naval
"Reading is the ultimate meta-skill that can be traded for anything else."―Naval
"If you want to be a philosopher king, first become a king then become a philosopher—not first become a philosopher and then become a king."―Naval
"To the experts, what looks like hard work from the outside is play from the inside."―Naval
"Don’t take yourself so seriously. You’re just a monkey with a plan."―Naval
"The people who have the ability to fail in public under their own name actually gain a lot of power."―Naval
"The means of learning are abundant; the desire to learn is scarce."―Naval
"If you’re good with computers, basic mathematics, writing, speaking, and if you like reading, you’re set for life."―Naval
"The smarter you get, the slower you read."―Naval
"Renting out your time means you’re essentially replaceable."―Naval
"The only true test of intelligence is if you get what you want out of life."―Naval
"Specialization is for insects. I don't believe in this model of trying to focus your life down to one thing. You've got one life; just do everything you want."―Naval
"Status is your ranking in the social hierarchy."―Naval
"Any meeting with eight people sitting around at a conference table—nothing is getting done in that meeting. You are literally just dying one hour at a time."―Naval
"Wealth is a very positive-sum game. We create things together. Status, on the other hand, is a zero-sum game."―Naval
"Art is anything done for its own sake."―Naval
"Wealth is assets that earn while you sleep."―Naval
"The most dangerous things are heroin and a monthly salary."―Naval
"Escape competition through authenticity."―Naval
"Taleb’s 'Skin in the Game' is required reading."―Naval
"A taste of freedom can make you unemployable."―Naval
"Getting rich is about knowing what to do, who to do it with, and when to do it. It's much more about understanding than purely hard work."―Naval
"If you care about ethics in wealth creation, it's better to create your wealth using code and media as leverage."―Naval
"Wealth buys your freedom."―Naval
"Entrepreneurship is essentially an act of creating something new from scratch."―Naval
"Every second you have on this planet is very precious, and it’s your responsibility to make sure you’re happy and interpreting everything in the best possible way."―Naval
"My personal learning has been that the principal-agent problem drives so much in this world. It’s an incentives problem."―Naval
"I’ve learned that tit-for-tat iterated prisoner’s dilemma is the piece of game theory that is worth knowing the most."―Naval
"Self-esteem is the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know."―Naval
"If you’re willing to bleed a little bit every day but in exchange you'll win big later, you will do better."―Naval
"The most dangerous things are heroin and a monthly salary because they are highly addictive."―Naval
"You have two lives, and the second one begins when you realize you only have one."―Naval
"Play stupid games, win stupid prizes."―Naval
"If you don't see yourself working with someone for life, don't work a single day with that person."―Naval
"All greatness comes from suffering."―Naval
"You must own equity to gain your financial freedom."―Naval
"Look for professions and careers where the inputs and outputs are highly disconnected."―Naval
"People living below their means have freedom."―Naval
"Figure out what product you can provide and then figure out how to scale it."―Naval
"It's about distributing what rich people used to have to everybody."―Naval
"What the internet does is allows any niche obsession."―Naval
"Happiness is there when you remove the sense of something missing in your life."―Naval
"I would rather read the best 100 books over and over again until I absorb them rather than read all the books."―Naval
"You should be able to pick up any book in the library and read it."―Naval
"Emotions are what prevent you from seeing what’s actually happening until you can no longer resist the truth."―Naval
"Don’t partner with pessimists."―Naval
"Partner with rational optimists."―Naval
"We’re descended from pessimists."―Naval
"Arm yourself with specific knowledge."―Naval
"Impatience with actions, patience with results."―Naval
"The measure of how much you love something is what you sacrifice for it."―Naval
"In 1,000 parallel universes, you want to be wealthy in 999 of them."―Naval
"Read what you love until you love to read."―Naval
"Be very careful about reading other people’s opinions and even be careful when reading facts."―Naval
"The most important trick to happiness is to realize happiness is a skill you develop and a choice you make."―Naval
"We don't always get what we want, but sometimes what is happening is for the best."―Naval
"Be aware there are no 'adults.' Everyone makes it up as they go along."―Naval
"You're going to die one day and none of this is going to matter."―Naval
"As long as you are doing what you want, it's not a waste of time."―Naval
"Don't spend your life making other people happy. Other people being happy is their problem."―Naval
"Inspiration is perishable—act on it immediately."―Naval
"You can’t be normal and expect abnormal returns."―Naval
"If you just keep stirring the pot, you will run out of unluck."―Naval
"Many of them believe they can’t make it. They virtue signal by attacking the whole enterprise."―Naval
"Wealth is a very positive-sum game. We create things together."―Naval
"People creating wealth will always be attacked by people playing status games."―Naval
"Give society what it doesn’t know how to get, and deliver it at scale."―Naval
"Too many takers and not enough makers will plunge a society into ruin."―Naval
"I’m always 'working.' It looks like work to others, but it feels like play to me."―Naval
"To win at a status game, you have to put somebody else down. That's why you should avoid status games."―Naval
"Making money isn’t about luck. It’s about becoming the kind of person who makes money."―Naval
"The central challenge facing game designers is to delay the moment until you realize it’s a complete waste of time."―Naval
"Working with who you want to work with, on what you want to work on, is actually just play."―Naval
"The biggest advantage of working remotely is that you no longer have to pretend to work 60 hours a week."―Naval
"Technology destroys jobs and replaces them with opportunities."―Naval
"Startups shouldn’t worry about how to put out fires, they should worry about how to start them."―Naval
"Rich people get paid by the project and pay by the hour."―Naval
"An entrepreneur without drive is just unemployed."―Naval
"If the value you create is not mainly a function of the hours you spend, then you're likely in the right line of work."―Naval
"You have to pick something big to work on, because it's hard to commit your life to something small."―Naval
"Use money to reward the best, not to motivate the rest."―Naval
"Your number one job as a parent is to provide unconditional love to your kids, because it’s the one thing that they can’t get anywhere else."―Naval
"I, and I alone, am responsible for everything I think and feel."―Naval
"Elon doesn’t live life like it’s a sim, he lives life like it’s *his* sim."―Naval
"Happiness (if you want it):*

1. Meet basic needs

2. Avoid cheap dopamine

3. Leave the past alone

4. Limit desires to ones achievable at the edge of your capability

5. Find something beyond yourself (mission, children, God)

*Most people want something else."―Naval
"If your opinions line up neatly with those of your friends and colleagues, they’re not your opinions."―Naval
"It’s not a zero-sum game for resources, it’s a positive-sum game for knowledge."―Naval
"Drones are autonomous bullets."―Naval
"All new information starts as misinformation."―Naval
"Everything we pursue is to satiate the body or elevate the self, with one exception.―Naval
Truth is its own reward. Regardless of the consequences."―Naval
"Jokes are how the powerless tell the truth."―Naval
"If it’s not based on merit, it’s based on popularity."―Naval
"Study a field in which you can apply mathematics and have the conclusions validated or refuted by contact with free markets or physical reality."―Naval
"Either have children or become a saint, because eventually, you have to find something you love more than you love yourself."―Naval
"Leaving X is self-destructive:

• The valuable sub-communities grow last and are the hardest to transplant.

• The largest network provides the most professional opportunities.

• Rigid ideologues move but the persuadable center does not. So they just move into irrelevance."―Naval
"The only way to stop the people from printing money into ruin is to hardcode a limit."―Naval
"X influences the influencers."―Naval
"Fix immigration and voting, punish lawfare and censorship, wipe out the bureaucracy.

Everything else is downstream."―Naval
"The Democrats need a young Bernie."―Naval
"Elon Musk wasn’t eligible to be President, so he did the next best thing and got one elected."―Naval
"Good people don’t spend time moralizing about how good they are."―Naval
"Don’t buy it because someone tells you to buy it - they won’t be around to tell you when to sell it."―Naval
"Be wary of anything that starts with the word “social.”"―Naval
"Free speech is how you spot the errors, voting is how you fix them, and staying armed is how you keep those rights."―Naval
"Nothing will attract people to you as much as your values."―Naval
"Elon made being Republican cool again."―Naval
"Words can’t hurt you, they can only hurt your image of you."―Naval
"America is forged by immigrants and descendants of immigrants.

Self-selecting for the American Dream.

Choosing freedom over safety, opportunity over handouts, prosperity over equality."―Naval
"Republican Party is MAGA now.

Dems need their reboot."―Naval
"If you have secret information, secret police, and secret courts, you are ruled by a secret government."―Naval
"The new leader of the Center-Right is Elon Musk. May 24th 2022"―Naval
"Upcoming deregulation wave will create an economic sonic boom."―Naval
"Leaders come and leaders go, but don’t change the rules of the game.

Censorship is changing the rules of the game.

Lawfare is changing the rules of the game.

Importing voters is changing the rules of the game.

Time to change the people who are changing the rules of the game."―Naval
"The singular trait of a leader is courage."―Naval
"Good men are, always and everywhere, in short supply."―Naval
"Modern man craves the tribe."―Naval
"Drones are to infantry as muskets were to knights."―Naval
"Drone supremacy is the new nuclear supremacy."―Naval
"Single people vote for themselves. Married people vote for their kids."―Naval
"Any government that slows down the development of spacecraft, medicine, robots, and intelligence is an impediment to civilization."―Naval
"If you aren’t volunteering to fight in a particular war, you shouldn’t be advocating for it."―Naval
"If we leave the defense-industrial complex in charge of the government, of course we’re going to have more wars."―Naval
"The basis for friendship, relationship, partnership - isn’t proximity or time spent together - it’s values."―Naval
"What's your take on business books?

@naval
: Give them to your competitors."―Naval
"If you have to do it, it’s work. If you want to do it, it’s play."―Naval
"This election is X versus the system."―Naval
"The most important right is the right to be left alone."―Naval
"The professors tell the press and the press tells the politicians and the politicians do as they’re told."―Naval
"The irony of Covid is that the people who were supposed to protect us from it are the ones who did it."―Naval
"The single biggest wealth hack is living in the future."―Naval
"People who live on X and people who watch the news are living in two completely different worlds."―Naval
"Calm the stomach. Move the body. Rest the mind."―Naval
"Robotaxis are going to get shockingly cheap, especially during off hours."―Naval
"You have one life. Don’t settle for mediocrity."―Naval
"Don’t get mad at Kamala. She’s just following orders."―Naval
"Colleges have become status-stamping machines."―Naval
"Revolutions are fomented by elites who are high in status but low in money."―Naval
"One advantage of being a leftist is that, being on the “moral” side, you never question your own motives."―Naval
"An open border is a bleeding wound."―Naval
"Somewhere between Tesla and SpaceX lies the seed of Elon’s drone company."―Naval
"Pay the world whatever it takes to leave you alone to think."―Naval
"The real tax is society forcing otherwise productive people to pay attention to politics."―Naval
"The true scarcity is attention, not time."―Naval
"There are infinite ways to lie, there’s only one way to tell the truth."―Naval
"Instead of asking what books you should read, ask what ideas you should understand."―Naval
"Banning X in a country isn’t an act against X, it’s an act against the people of that country."―Naval
"Bureaucracy is the fungus that eats the state."―Naval
"They want to punish you for your words because they can’t punish you for your thoughts."―Naval
"Intimacy is a flower - it blooms in a healthy relationship, and disappears in a sick one."―Naval
"Truth is that which, once you see it, you can’t unsee it."―Naval
"If you ask someone why they’re with someone else and the answer sounds like a resume, it’s over."―Naval
"You do not want incompetent virtue-signaling politicians from California, a state blessed with perfect weather and a captive tax-base, running the nation."―Naval
"Social approval is the enemy of clear thinking."―Naval
"Technology improves quality of life more than anything else, and it’s not even close."v―Naval
"“Family” is the people who always want what’s best for you."―Naval
"The real winner in the election is Elon Musk."―Naval
"It’s the battle of the masculine men and the feminine women vs the masculine women and the feminine men."―Naval
"Twitter is all the world’s thoughts, competing to enter every brain."―Naval
"Resist censorship.

Resist lawfare.

Resist disarmament.

Everything else is downstream."―Naval
"The most dangerous religion is “the world is ending.”"―Naval
"Don’t read books, read authors.

Don’t read to read, read to understand.

Don’t write to persuade, write to refine.

Don’t speak to others, speak to hear yourself."―Naval
"“The End of the World” is a meme that never gets old."―Naval
"If it happened before you were born, get over it."―Naval
"If you understand it, you don’t need to memorize it.

If you don’t understand it, you don’t want to memorize it."―Naval
"Nothing more dangerous than somebody who thinks they’re going to save the world."―Naval
"Every piece of advice must be taken before it’s given."―Naval
